README

CS175 Final Project

TITLE:   Wikipedia Art Gallery (in WebGL)

ADVISER: Yuanchen Zhu

MEMBERS: David Kosslyn     dkosslyn@fas.harvard.edu
         Keito Uchiyama    keito@cs.harvard.edu
         Yuhki Yamashita   yyamash@fas.harvard.edu

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DESCRIPTION:

Our project implements a 3D art gallery in WebGL.  The gallery is powered by
Wikipedia's corpus, displaying images according to their categories.  Users
can either specify a particular category of paintings they would like to see
or browse randomly through the different galleries in the museum.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE CODE & FILES:

README.txt

client/
 \_ waglogo.png (logo)
 \_ index.html (main page)
 \_ includes/
     \_ WorldGenerator.js (generates geometry of walls)
     \_ WAG.js (creates connection with Wikipedia backend)
     \_ wag.css
     \_ TeapotGenerator.js (generates vertices, normals for teapot)
     \_ sylvester.js (implements some matrix operations, provided by Thomas)
     \_ spotlight-vs.vert (spotlight vertex shader)
     \_ spotlight-fs.frag (spotlight fragment shader)
     \_ shader-vs.vert (per-fragment vertex shader)
     \_ shader-fs.frag (per-fragment fragment shader)
     \_ Room.js (functions pertaining to art gallery generation)
     \_ Movement.js (functions for moving / teleporting)
     \_ Matrix.js (implements basic matrix operations, provided by Thomas)
     \_ lighting-vs.vert (per-vertex vertex shader)
     \_ lighting-fs.frag (per-vertex fragment shader)
     \_ glUtils.js (WebGL functions, provided by Thomas)
     
 \_ textures/
     \_ wallpaper.jpg
     \_ teapot.jpg
     \_ plank.jpg
     \_ PROVENANCE.txt (provenance of texture files)

node/
 \_ app.js (allows for browsing within art gallery)
 \_ catwhitelist.list (list of valid categories in Wikipedia)
 \_ genwhitelist.js (generates above list)
 \_ wikipedia.js (implements Wikipedia interface)

shared/
 \_ WAGConsts.js (setup file)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:

We would like to thank Giles Thomas, who provided many useful tutorials
online on WebGL.  Much of our framework is based on his work (WebGL versions
of the NeHe OpenGL tutorials):

http://learningwebgl.com/blog/?page_id=1217

We also borrowed heavily from the CS175 problem sets and lecture slides.

All displayed images (i.e. paintings) are taken from Wikipedia, unless
otherwise indicated.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VIEWING/INSTALLING:

1. Make sure you have a browser installed that supports WebGL.  We developed
   on Firefox 4.0b7, so we recommend you install this version.

2. Make sure that your browser has WebGL enabled.  See detailed instructions
   here:
   
   http://www.windows7hacker.com/index.php/2010/02/how-to-enable-webgl-in-
   firefox-chrome-and-safari/

3. Visit one of the following links (they should all work):
   - https://cloud.cs50.net/~yyamash/cs175/WebGL-Wikipedia-Museum/client/
   - http://davidkosslyn.com/cs175/WebGL-Wikipedia-Museum/client/
   - http://art.kimbei.com/WebGL-Wikipedia-Museum/client/

4. You're done!

You may also choose to download the source files yourself.  These are
available in the zip file but also open source at this link:

https://github.com/kozzles/WebGL-Wikipedia-Museum

Note that the backend is written in node.js.  It requires the "async" module
(available through npm) and the "restler" module (check out from
https://github.com/danwrong/restler).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
A BRIEF USER'S GUIDE:

Once at you're at the website, you can immediately begin navigating with the
arrow keys and Page Up/Down keys.  The up and down arrows move forward and
backward; the right/left arrows yaw, and the Page Up/Down keys pitch.

Explore to your heart's content -- the museum is an infinitely large space! 
Every time you move to a new room, we pseudorandomly choose a selection of
new paintings to display.  Do note that, because we are pulling images
directly from Wikipedia, the images take a second or so to load.  As a
result, you may initially see some blank walls before the galleries are
populated with paintings.  Also, some categories have fewer paintings than
others, meaning that not every wall will have a painting.

You can also opt to change the paintings in a room by inputting a category of
your choice in the textbox atop the page.  You will be getting a list of
suggestions as you start typing, so pick one to get started!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FUTURE DIRECTIONS:

We see this gallery as a potentially useful educational tool, and we would
like to develop features that will help users learn more about the paintings
they see.  It would be nice if links to articles about the painting are made
available through our interface, and we could display more information about
each painting in the scene.

In terms of graphics improvements, we would certainly like to improve our
shaders and implement shadow mapping.

